components/connector/docs/08-02-maintain-secure-connection-with-compass.md, before:

---
title: Maintain a secure connection with Compass
type: Tutorials
---

After you have established a secure connection with Compass, you can fetch the configuration details and renew the client certificate before it expires.  
This guide shows you how to do that.

## Prerequisites

- [OpenSSL toolkit](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.0.2/apps/openssl.html) to create a Certificate Signing Request (CSR), keys, and certificates which meet high security standards
- Established secure connection with Compass

> **NOTE**: To see how to establish a secure connection with Compass, see [this](08-01-establish-secure-connection-with-compass.md) document. 

<!--- TODO: link in the note above --->

## Get the CSR information and configuration details from Kyma using the client certificate 

To fetch the configuration, make a call to the Certificate-Secured Connector URL using the client certificate. 
The Certificate-Secured Connector URL is the `certificateSecuredConnectorURL` obtained when establishing a secure connection with Compass. 
Send this query with the call:
```graphql
query {
    result: configuration {
        certificateSigningRequestInfo { 
            subject 
            keyAlgorithm 
        }
        managementPlaneInfo { 
            directorURL 
        }
    }
}
``` 

A successful call returns the data requested in the query.

## Renew the client certificate 

Generate a CSR with this command using the certificate subject data obtained with the CSR information: 
```
openssl genrsa -out generated.key 2048
openssl req -new -sha256 -out generated.csr -key generated.key -subj "{SUBJECT}"
openssl base64 -in generated.csr
```

Send this GraphQL mutation with the encoded CSR to the Certificate-Secured Connector URL:

```graphql
mutation {
    result: signCertificateSigningRequest(csr: "{BASE64_ENCODED_CSR}") {
        certificateChain
        caCertificate
        clientCertificate
    }
}
```

The response contains a renewed client certificate signed by the Kyma Certificate Authority (CA) and the CA certificate.

Commit message:

WIP: Improve certificate generation and renewal tutorials; Create certificate revocation tutorial

components/connector/docs/08-02-maintain-secure-connection-with-compass.md, after:

---
title: Maintain a secure connection with Compass
type: Tutorials
---

After you have established a secure connection with Compass, you can fetch the configuration details and renew the client certificate before it expires.  
This guide shows you how to do that.

## Prerequisites

- [OpenSSL toolkit](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.0.2/apps/openssl.html) to create a Certificate Signing Request (CSR), keys, and certificates which meet high security standards
- Established secure connection with Compass

> **NOTE**: To see how to establish a secure connection with Compass, see [this](08-01-establish-secure-connection-with-compass.md) document. 

<!--- TODO: link in the note above --->

## Get the CSR information and configuration details from Kyma using the client certificate 

To fetch the configuration, make a call to the Certificate-Secured Connector URL using the client certificate and key. 
The Certificate-Secured Connector URL is the `certificateSecuredConnectorURL` obtained when establishing a secure connection with Compass. 
Send this query with the call:

```graphql
query {
    result: configuration {
        certificateSigningRequestInfo { 
            subject 
            keyAlgorithm 
        }
        managementPlaneInfo { 
            directorURL 
        }
    }
}
``` 

A successful call returns the data requested in the query.

## Renew the client certificate 

Use the certificate subject data obtained with the CSR information. Remove commas separating the subject fields and prefix the fields with slashes. 

```bash
sub={SUBJECT_DATA}
export SUBJECT="/${sub//,//}"
```

Generate a CSR with this command using the certificate subject data obtained with the CSR information: 

> **CAUTION:** Be careful not to overwrite your old certificate and key while generating the new ones. You need the old ones to send with the request for certificate renewal. 

```bash
openssl genrsa -out generated.key 2048
openssl req -new -sha256 -out generated.csr -key generated.key -subj $SUBJECT
openssl base64 -in generated.csr
```

Send this GraphQL mutation with the encoded CSR to the Certificate-Secured Connector URL using the old client certificate and key:

```graphql
mutation {
    result: signCertificateSigningRequest(csr: "{BASE64_ENCODED_CSR}") {
        certificateChain
        caCertificate
        clientCertificate
    }
}
```

The response contains a renewed client certificate signed by the Kyma Certificate Authority (CA) and the CA certificate.
